---
layout: post
title: Day 5
tag: University/Calisthenics
comments: True
---

## 1: Academics

I did 3 lectures on optics. Once again not enough, but the material I covered today was difficult, so It took some time. Need to solve the correspoding problem sheet tomorrow and cover 3 more lectures and solve their corresponding problem sheet as well. 

The pace definitely has to be higher, but I seem to be getting back into it, so I won't dwell on it too hard **today**. 

## 2: Physical

Sleep was horrible again, slept until 12pm as I couldn't fall asleep properly and then I kept waking up. Sleep seems to be my biggest issue, as it interferes not only with my recovery and general state of being, but it also seems to waste the most time. I lay in bed around 10-12 hours to get enough sleep to feel relatively rested and ready to start the day. This is a big, big, big issues. I will need all of my prroductive time in the future so I need to find a fix for this as soon as possible. I hope with time my internal clock will eventually recalibrate, but that depends on how willing I am to be miserable for a few days in the future. Truly a lose lose situation.

Good workout otherwise, another hard session consisting of:
- 50 strict form pull ups broken into sets of 5 with around 2min rest in between sets
- 10 negative pull ups with a hold on the top part of the pull up, as that appears to be my weak point currently
- 4 Sets of dips until failure (first set was 20, and then the reps dropped a bit). 
- A few sets of normal push ups and pike push ups

Once again I feel my pull up form is improving and better, but I hadn't recovered fully to push like I did yesterday on the pull so I decided to do some dips and push ups as well.

## 3: Psychological

Not a bad day ignoring not being optimal with the studying and wasting a lot of time due to sleep issues.

Current time is 00:52, which is sub-optimal, but I had to finish up some work. In general I didn't scroll, nor did I watch youtube. No artifical sweets either. Only small issue was I went on a bit of a tangent watching old UCL highlights, but I didn't waste as much time as I usually do on scrolling or youtube. Will attempt to eliminate this as well tomorrow. Obviously bedtime is cooked, so in general:
-3/4 rules satisfied. 

I've also tried to reduce the amount of music I listen to, also NO music while trying to go to sleep or while studying/working out. This seems to help me focus and be more immersed, but time definitely passes more slowly, which is probably a good thing anyway. 

I really need to pick up the pace with which I cover content, otherwise I will get cooked. My focus seems to be very fragmented currently, but I reckon it will improve with consistency, like all things. 

We keep at it gng 🥀