---
layout: post
title: Univesity so far
comments: True
---
_This post aims to provide context for the daily blog posts_


I arrived to university in september 2025 very motivated to learn a lot of new physics and finally be in an environment to lock in. I've now been through 2/3 semesters, and am currently enjoying the easter break before 3 exams in late april. In this initial post ill try to reflect on my struggles during those first 2 semesters, and how im currently at probably my worst ever state. This is a last ditch effort to try and get my arrangements in order. Im hoping that doing a daily update of what work i do every day will become a streak which will keep me consistent and accountable, sort of like duolingo, where they take advantage of your subconcious not wanting to break a streak. Ill divide the work i do each day in 3 categories: _academic, physical and psychological_.


## 1: Univesity struggles

The thing that hit me the hardest, and still keeps beating on me every day, is the lack of habits and skills needed to actually live a healthy life. For a student to function properly, and be able to learn, there are a few basic needs that have to be met on a regular: **sleep, food & commute**.


1. Sleep - I share a room with a roommate, and during the first term i had some pretty serious sleep issues. Mostly due to my own actions, but still, its different living with another human being in the same room. I turned out to be pretty lucky, as my roommate found himself a girlfriend, and most of you can guess where he prefers to stay the night, so these days i practically live alone for most of the time. Being able to sleep calmly is definitely a benefit, but im also missing on the social aspect of having a roommate and being homies with them, which is kind of a shame. I remember vividly during term one i struggled hard with insomnia around a lab report deadline. I dont even think it was stress, i was just stuck thinking about other things. Insomnia is no joke btw, its laying in bed for 8 hours but not resting at all. Id usually be in some kind of a half-asleep state, where id still get enough rest to be able to function, but my brain was not recovering properly. My memory degraded significantly and i struggled with any kind of task at hand. I had issues with it for about a month, with the longest consecutive streak being around 4 days, that shit was absolutely miserable. Term 2 things got better in terms of sleep quality, but my sleep is all over the place now, never quite settling on a fixed routine. 
2. Cooking is hard, annoying and extremely boring. When i came here i bought a single stainless steel pan from IKEA (no non-stick coating, just pure steel), and it took me a month to learn how to cook eggs on it without either burning them to a crisp, or having half of them stick to the pan. The secret is in preheating it with a high smoke-point oil, letting it cool a little and then adding butter. After that you can throw anything in, and it wont stick. Regardless, even knowing how to cook, its still incredibly boring and difficult to do when you've had your mom/dad cook for the family your whole life. Definitely a top 3 living alone reality checks. These days i've mostly figured out how to cook healthy food efficiently and in bulk, but it still requires you to enter the kitchen.
3. Going to uni is sort of mandatory if you want to keep on top of things, so commmuting is pretty important. I live around 8km away from uni, so the first thing i did was buy a bike and start cycling. London weather is not for the weak, especially during the winter. And once you start hopping on the tube, its pretty hard to go back to cycling 30 min back and forth in the cold. London roads are also very rough, which is aplified x10 when you're riding a road bike with 80psi thin tires, slouched over the handlebars.

## 2: Studying
Even if one had their living habits in perfect order, the main purpose of university is to learn the subject you're doing your degree in, which usually involved studying. Now, everyone has their own internal motive as to why they study and put work into their degree. For example, most people aim to get a first and get a good job, mathematician usually want to become quants, engineers want to find a stable engineering position, biologists and chemists want to work in big pharma, etc. Physicists are pretty versative when it comes to the job market, so getting a job in most sectors is pretty plausible given you're good enough. Some people however, want to enter academia, usually spoiled brats that dont have to think about feeding their family. Im a spoiled brat, so academia was the main purpose that drove me to go to university, the backbone of my motivation was to become one of the **best physicists** in the world, to be **the best**. 


Now, for people that have passed first year, its clear how absurd the notion of a **best** physicist is, and even if something like that existed, lets say for the sake of the argument its winning the nobel prize, is that a good backbone as to why you want to dedicate your life to something? This was a big issue for me, and im sure for many other guys (and gals) around me. Doing science, research and learning is not the same as doing professional sports. The mechanism associated with sports is slightly different, there's adrenaline and other stuff involved that never pop up while solving differential equations or finding the fourier series expansion of a function. I had a very competitive mindset when it came to doing science, very sports like mentality. Interesting enough, although i "wanted to be the best", i wasn't putting in the work to be the best. I guess that's partly because i lack the discipline to do it using this as the backbone to my drive. Im sure there are some people for which it works, mostly former olympiad competitors (IPhO), as that is quite literally a competition, so im sure they can translate that to learning bachelor level content. Unfortunately im not part of that subgroup of students, and i discovered that this mechanism doesnt quite work for me. 


The issue is i discovered that right before the christmas break when i was supposed to be studying for my mechanics and relativity exam. Practically speaking the mindset to be the **best** had gotten me relatively consistent throughout the semester, so i was relatively familiar with the content (very familiar with the maths, not so with the mechanics part). When i went back home for the christmas break i struggled to find meaning as to what i was doing, so i spent all my time back home pondering what i was trying to do with the time and money me and my family were putting into this. While i had come to peace i most probably wont be the next einstein even before coming to uni, the fundamental way i was thinking about physics was wrong, i wasn't doing it for the love of the game. Fortunately i came back to uni 5 days before the exam, and as i was already pretty familiar with the content, managed to scrape a 71, which is lowkirkenuinely good. During the break however, i had decided the way i was looking at things was not sustainable long term, so i came back with no real drive to study. Fortunately, during one of our first lectures on fourier analysis where we derived the interference pattern for light passing though different types/number of slits i realised i do genuinely like the maths and physics for what it is, even when it is completely disconnected from any competition/organisation/achievement or social perception. Needless to say my love for the game was not strong enough to overcome my love for reels and youtube shorts, so i practically scrolled through the second semester. 


While i do genuinely enjoy it, my previous competition based motive was strong enough to supress the distractions enough to where i could do enough work to not be completely cooked, even after wasting almost the whole christmas break (side note: the professors were very kind on the exam as well, especially the linear algebra prof, shout out Kim). With that driving mechanism gone for term two, i got absolutely cooked by reels and skittles. I was/am putting in 9-5 numbers every day scrolling dumb ass reels and shorts while eating a bunch of sugar. I find the reels stop the inside voice from speaking, which is most probably why i scroll so much. I did attend almost all lectures however, and im familiar with some parts of the modules. I attempted to lock in on multiple occassions, to no avail. I've tried so many times at this point that i see no logical reason to try again. Im going to do it anyway though, as reels lowkirk become kinda boring after doing it for a month straight.


## 3: Privilege

Another thing that played a very big role as to why I did work during the first semester was the knowledge of my privilege and a need not to waste the opportunity that was given to me by my parents and their financial situation. This is also the thing that kept me up at night the most. It would be extremely naive and entitled to believe Im where Im at because of talent, intelligence or aptitude. The reality of things is that most of my achievements if they can even be called that are a byproduct of the social situation in which i was born. Its a real burden to carry on your shoulders, especially when every time you go back home, the first thing everyone makes sure to remind me is how much the tuition for my university is, rather than "whats up", or any other homie-like behaviour we did pre-uni. Its a very paradoxical situation, because It's not like you can just pay and attend. I had to earn the grades to even submit my application, after which i had to take the entrance exam (ESAT) and score high enough to get in. That however doesn't really matter if you can't pay the tutition though, you can have the highest ESAT score in the world, and still be stuck where you're at because of lack of funds. And that isn't even taking into account high school and the opportunities i got there to even be able to submit an application. It's a real pain, because I know many people would beat me, given they had the same opportunities as me. It's inescapable, as you can't really argue that you deserve it more than someone else, you'd be making hypotheticals based on no evidence. Funny enough, i can think of a way to prove that using the rules of mathematical logic. Assume someone says "I'd be better than you given i had the same opportunities"
- Let "I have the same opoortunities" be statement P
- Let "I am better than you" be statement Q
Then we would have \\[P\implyQ\\], which is the same as also saying "If i had the same opportunities i would be better than you". But if you dont have the same opportunities, then statement P is false, so statement Q is **vacuously** true. Its a really interesting thing in logic, you can read about it here: [Vacuous truth wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vacuous_truth). So now we have literally proven pretending you deserve something is a logical fallacy. The idea that i had something so many people couldnt really affected me through high-school and the first semester, and going back home didnt help either. In an ideal world everyone should have the same opportunity, but i guess such social views are easy to have when you're on the good side of society. Regardless, during the christmas break i realised that's too heavy of a burden to carry and has too big a cost in terms of thinking power and attention to be entertained daily. I realise the only way forward is to accept it, realise where you come from and what you've been given, and then stop giving it your energy and time. Its easy when you're the priviged one, but i've thought about it a long time, and unless Lenin gets reincarnated i don't see how the world is going to change soon. After that motive was eliminated from why i was studying only the love for the game remained, but as i mentioned earlier, that isn't really enough yet.


## 4: Outro

This post provides context to the daily posts i plan on doing as a last ditch effort to try and build some routine in place of my current life. I've unironically never had time pass so quickly, its truly amasing what doomscrolling all day every day does to the human brain. Im sure in 50 years doomscrolling will turn out to be the asbestos of Gen-Z. **I have three exams in 31 days**:
- Oscillations and waves (Fourier analysis, Waves, Optics, Electronics, Complex numbers, Differential equations)
- Vector fields, electricity and magnetism (Vector calculus, electrostatics, magnetism)
- Mathematical analysis (Real analysis and the required pre-requisites [set theory and some number theory])
My aim is to also get back in shape as all the sugar has taken my edge off when it comes to calisthenics
The purpose of this is not to do well on the exams, as weird as it sounds. The purpose is to try and really set some habits in place (sleep, eating, working out) while also doing as much academic work as possible, **driven mainly by interest in the subjects**. While i believe competitive spirit has its uses, especially when it comes to exams, i dont think it should be the **backbone** of why one studies physics.


I will comment on my plans on how i will approach my absolutely cooked state in the next post, titled "Day 0"