---
layout: post
title: Day 3
tag: University/Calisthenics
comments: True
---

## 1: Academics

I did optics, covering 3/15 lectures from the course. I also did one of five problem sheets on the subject. 

Overall a good start, but nowhere the tempo I will need to pull this off. Important part is I actually did some work though, as it will all snowball from there.

## 2: Physical

I went to sleep at 22:00 yesterday, I did manage to fall asleep, but woke up at 00:30. I couldn't fall asleep, so I messed around a bit (got water, took a piss, listened to music, etc.) until 2:30, when I was able to fall asleep again. Got out of bed at 9:11. Not as planned, but much better than previous days. Overall I felt pretty stable in terms of energy throughout the day and ate some pretty good food (finally got some vegetables). 

I didn't work out today, except some push up sets throughout the day, but I don't count those as a workout. Reason was bad time management, as at lunchtime I found myself with too much time and not much to do (didn't want to workout as I felt sluggish and heavy). As I didn't want to study I fell into youtube on my laptop and spend 2 hours watching videos, I guess at least they were long form but that doesn't change the fact I broke one of the rules. Regardless, alright day and its expected to have some troubles with time management considering I finally had a full day worth of time.

## 3: Psychological

As mentioned earlier, I watched some youtube, as I couldn't structure my mid-day properly, so that rule wasn't satisfied. Further, I went out with a friend, and couldn't make it home in time for the bedtime. Current time is 00:23, but I'm ready to go to bed, so not that much time was lost. No artificial sweets were consumed, which is good.

While some ground was gained with school, efforts to increase the volume of academic work has to be made. Not working out is not much of a loss, as a rest day is not to be underestimated, tomorrow will compensate with a high volume workout. No scrolling was done, which is a great success, and I can feel I'm moving away from short form content. 

2/4 rules satisfied 

The fight continues 🥀