---
layout: post
title: Day 1
tag: University/Calisthenics
comments: True
---

## 1: Academics

I went to sleep at 22:00 yesterday, and slept until 15:00 today, not in one chunk, but I was too sleepy to get up so I just kept day dreaming and half-sleeping until 3. This was expected to an extend, considering the evening before Day 0, so Day -1, I went on a crazy sugar rush and drank 4 monsters (i rarely drink energy drink, or any caffeine in general) as a 4-pack was on sale in Asda. If I had to estimate, I ate \\[\approx 500g\\] of sugar and \\[\approx 640mg\\] of caffeine, and thats with the drinks being sugar free. That consisted of 2 packs of oreos, a 5-pack of mentos, 5-pack chocolate chip cookies from sainsburys, 4 chocolate glazed donuts form sainsburys, 500mL Lipton ice tea and a Mars bar. I ate and drank it all in a span of an evening as I was just miserable, and sugar sort of helps with that. Needless to say I couldn't fall asleep and felt absolutely horrible, my insuling probably spiked very high and the crash was horrible. At 7am I decided there was no point in trying to sleep and decided to start this series and stop scrolling. 

While after Day -1 I thought I'm done with scrolling and the unhealthy lifestyle, when I got out of bed at 3pm today I wasn't filled with motivation to study and lock in. Clearly, habits are incredibly hard to break, so I scrolled untill 9pm. At the very least I didn't fall back to sugar and ate a relatively normal Tesco meal deal. As you may have guessed, NO studying or any other kind of academics was done today, similar to the weeks prior. Truly a bad start to the series and lock in, but as Rocky said, it ain't about how hard you hit, but how hard you can get hit and keep moving forward. 

## 2: Physical

Good things: 
1. Didn't eat sugar
2. Recovered pretty well due to hibernation level sleep

Bad things:
1. No workout was done today.
2. Didn't feed myself optimally, but Tesco mealdeal will suffice.

## 3: Psychological

So, from the 4 rules only 1 was met today.

Rules satisfied:
- No artifical sweets

Rules broken:
- I did scroll
- I did watch quite a bit of youtube
- It's currently 22:26, so bedtime is cooked as well

To try and salvage today, I'll go to sleep as soon as possible and ensure I set myself up for success tomorrow. 

It ain't over till it's over gng