---
layout: post
title: Day 2
tag: University/Calisthenics
comments: True
---

## 1: Academics

Current time is 21:13, no studying was done today either, will study until 22:00 and then go to bed. I will do optics and potentially start one of the problem sheets.

## 2: Physical

Once again, today I slept late, until 2pm. I did, however, go and work out. 

The workout consisted of 70 strict form pull ups, broken into sets of 5 with 2 minutes rest between each set. The last few sets I had to increase the rest to 2:30-3:00 minutes as I was struggling to keep good form with the pull ups. 

I also ate pretty well, no added sugars and a lot of protein, could have eaten more vegetables, but honestly I'll take the no sugar part.

## 3: Psychological

I did manage to follow all 4 rules today, which is a geat improvement from yesterday. I did notice my brain craving for the quick scroll sesh, so I did go on a few short tangents on reddit and other browsing stuff. Overall, happy with keeping the scrolling to a minimum.

It's not 22:00 yet, but I will make sure to actually go to bed at 22:00 this time. I'll also try setting my alarm for 6am, away from the bed, such that I have to get up and stop it. This aims to prevent me from just laying in bed and daydreaming all day in light sleep mode, which is a very big issue right now, as it wastes a lot of time and doesn't really translate to much rest. 

While not much ground was gained with school, which is kind of worrying considering the exams are approaching, the rest of the habits are starting to take a shape. It aint over till its over gng 🥀 